docs: Added geomap missing headings, why and how describing data needs (#92237)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/panels-visualizations/visualizations/geomap/index.md

# Geomap

> Geomaps allow you to view and customize the world map using geospatial data. It's the ideal visualization if you have data that includes location information and you want to see it displayed in a map. You can configure various overlay styles, like routes, as well as map view settings including adding numeric values, labels, and icons. This helps you to easily focus on the important location-based characteristics of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Geomaps allow you to view and customize the world map using geospatial data. It's the ideal visualization if you have data that includes location information and you want to see it displayed in a map. You can configure and overlay various types of layers, like markers, heatmaps, routes, and network. In this mix, you can also overlay and blend various basemaps we include or your own custom map. You can customize the map view extents and even set it to fit your data dynamically. This helps you to easily focus on the important location-based characteristics of the data.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm wary of overloading this opening section. When you look at it in preview, it becomes a fair bit to read before the next heading. What about:
```suggestion
Geomaps allow you to view and customize the world map using geospatial data. It's the ideal visualization if you have data that includes location information and you want to see it displayed in a map.

You can configure and overlay [map layers](#types), like markers and routes, and blend included basemaps or your own custom maps. This helps you to easily focus on the important location-based characteristics of the data.
```

Reviewer: That is much better. One suggestion I have is to mention "heatmaps and networks" as these are more interesting or broadly applicable use cases imo.

{{< figure src="/static/img/docs/geomap-panel/geomap-example-8-1-0.png" max-width="1200px" alt="Geomap visualization" >}}

> When a geomap is in focus, you can pan around using the arrow keys or zoom in and out using the plus (`+`) and minus (`-`) keys or icons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a geomap is in focus, in addition to typical mouse controls, you can pan around using the arrow keys or zoom in and out using the plus (`+`) and minus (`-`) keys or icons.
```

Geomaps are also useful when you have location data that’s changing in real time and you want to visualize where an element is moving, using auto-refresh.

You can use a geomap visualization if you need to:

> - Track the position of food deliveries, planes, or freight services
> - Show the locations of the data centers or corporate devices
> - Map hiking route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Track your fleet of vehicles and associated metrics
- Show the locations and statuses of data centers or other connected assets in a network
- Display geographic trends in a heatmap
- Visualize the relationship of your locations' HVAC consumption or solar production with the sun's location
```

| Cancun    | d5f21        | 8     |
| Honolulu  | 87z9ps       | 0     |
| Palm Cove | rhzxudynb014 | 1     |
| Mykonos   | swdj02ey9gyx | 3     |

If your field containing geohash location data is not named as above, you can configure the visualization to use geohash and specify which field to use, as explained in the [Location mode](#location-mode) section.

### Example - Lookup codes

The geomap visualization can identify locations based on country, airport, or US state codes.

For this configuration, the dataset must contain at least one field (or column) containing the location code.

If the field is named `lookup`, the visualization automatically detects it and displays points based on country codes.

| Year | lookup | gdp       |
| ---- | ------ | --------- |
| 2016 | MEX    | 104171935 |
| 2016 | DEU    | 94393454  |
| 2016 | FRA    | 83654250  |
| 2016 | BRA    | 80921527  |
| 2016 | CAN    | 79699762  |

The other location types&mdash; airport codes or US state codes&mdash;aren't automatically detected.

If you want to use other codes or give the field a custom name, you can follow the steps in the [Location mode](#location-mode) section.

> 

Reviewer: These are great examples! Is the intention to have these at the top and have the users dig deeper down below if needed?

Reviewer 2: @srperf FTW! Definitely intended to be down here.
